README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/metalblockchain-logo.png" alt="Metal Blockchain Logo" width="200" />
</p>

# Deploy Metal Blockchain Validator on Akash Network

Launch a Metal blockchain validator node in minutes on Akash's decentralized cloud for a fraction of traditional VPS costs. Metal blockchain, developed by Metallicus, powers a compliant Digital Asset Banking Network connecting traditional finance with blockchain technology for regulated institutions. This deployment includes dedicated IP support for optimal peer-to-peer connectivity and validator performance.

## Requirements

Before deploying, ensure you have:

- **Akash wallet** with AKT tokens (for deployment costs)
- **Metal wallet** with 2,000+ METAL tokens (for mainnet staking)
- **Access to Akash Console** (no CLI required)
- **5-10 minutes** for deployment and bootstrap

## Cost

- **Mainnet**: Approximately $5-15/month on Akash Network
- Varies by provider and market conditions

## Quick Deploy

1. Go to [Akash Console](https://console.akash.network/)
2. Click "Deploy" → "Upload SDL"
3. Upload `deploy.yaml` from this repository
4. Deploy and wait 5-10 minutes

**GitHub Raw URL:**
```
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/VirgilBB/metal-validator-akash/main/deploy.yaml
```

## Two-Step Deployment Process

The template requires a two-step deployment process:

1. **Deploy first** - Create deployment to get LoadBalancer IP assigned
2. **Get IP** - Check Akash Console → Deployment → "IP(s)" field
3. **Update deployment** - Add environment variable `METAL_PUBLIC_IP=<your-loadbalancer-ip>` in Akash Console → Update
4. **Use final Node ID** - Copy Node ID from logs AFTER the update completes

**Why two steps?** The LoadBalancer IP is assigned AFTER deployment, so we need to update with the correct IP.

**Important:** Do not wait too long between deployments. Update the deployment promptly after getting the LoadBalancer IP.

## What You Get

After deployment, check your logs for:

```
========================================
=== METAL MAINNET VALIDATOR SETUP DATA ===
========================================

Node ID
NodeID-ABC123...

Proof of Possession - Public Key
0x3059301306...

Proof of Possession - Signature
0x3045022100...

========================================
=== NETWORK STATUS ===
========================================
Public IP: 62.3.50.131
Connected Peers: 20+
Network: Metal Mainnet
```

## Key Features

- **Dedicated IP Support**: Uses `endpoints` with `kind: ip` for optimal P2P connectivity
- **Advanced IP Detection**: Multi-method IP detection (Kubernetes API → Environment Variables → External Services)
- **Manual IP Override**: Set `METAL_PUBLIC_IP` environment variable if auto-detection fails
- **File Descriptor Limits**: Increased to 65536 to prevent "too many open files" errors
- **Peer Monitoring**: Real-time peer count monitoring every 5 minutes
- **Bootstrap Detection**: Waits for blockchain to fully bootstrap before reporting success

## Resources

- [Metal Blockchain](https://metalblockchain.org/)
- [Metal Mainnet Explorer](https://explorer.metalblockchain.org/validators)
- [Metal Validator Dashboard](https://metalblockchain.org/validators)
- [Akash Network](https://akash.network/)
- [Akash Console](https://console.akash.network/)

## Troubleshooting

### Problem: Node shows "Not connected" in explorer
**Solution**: Complete the two-step deployment process. Set `METAL_PUBLIC_IP` to your LoadBalancer IP from Akash Console and update the deployment.

### Problem: "too many open files" errors
**Solution**: The template includes `ulimit -n 65536` to prevent this issue.

### Problem: 0 peers connected
**Solution**: Ensure you completed the two-step process and set the correct LoadBalancer IP in `METAL_PUBLIC_IP`.

### Problem: Initial Node ID changes after update
**Solution**: This is normal. Use the final Node ID from logs AFTER the IP update completes.

## Need Help?

- **Direct Support:** Email [cerebro@cerebro.host](mailto:cerebro@cerebro.host)
- **Issues?** Open an issue in this repo
- **Questions?** Join [Akash Discord](https://discord.akash.network/)
- **Metal Support?** Join [Metal Discord](https://discord.gg/metalblockchain)

---

Deploy, copy your validator data, register on Metal dashboard, and start earning rewards!

Commit message:

Improve METAL_PUBLIC_IP instructions with concrete example
- Added step-by-step instructions for updating deployment
- Included concrete example: METAL_PUBLIC_IP=162.230.144.169
- Clarified where to find the IP in Akash Console
- Added example to troubleshooting sections
- Made instructions more beginner-friendly

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/metalblockchain-logo.png" alt="Metal Blockchain Logo" width="200" />
</p>

# Deploy Metal Blockchain Validator on Akash Network

Launch a Metal blockchain validator node in minutes on Akash's decentralized cloud for a fraction of traditional VPS costs. Metal blockchain, developed by Metallicus, powers a compliant Digital Asset Banking Network connecting traditional finance with blockchain technology for regulated institutions. This deployment includes dedicated IP support for optimal peer-to-peer connectivity and validator performance.

## Requirements

Before deploying, ensure you have:

- **Akash wallet** with AKT tokens (for deployment costs)
- **Metal wallet** with 2,000+ METAL tokens (for mainnet staking)
- **Access to Akash Console** (no CLI required)
- **5-10 minutes** for deployment and bootstrap

## Cost

- **Mainnet**: Approximately $5-15/month on Akash Network
- Varies by provider and market conditions

## Quick Deploy

1. Go to [Akash Console](https://console.akash.network/)
2. Click "Deploy" → "Upload SDL"
3. Upload `deploy.yaml` from this repository
4. Deploy and wait 5-10 minutes

**GitHub Raw URL:**
```
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/VirgilBB/metal-validator-akash/main/deploy.yaml
```

## Two-Step Deployment Process

The template requires a two-step deployment process:

1. **Deploy first** - Create deployment to get LoadBalancer IP assigned
2. **Get IP** - Check Akash Console → Deployment → "IP(s)" field (wait 1-2 minutes for IP to appear)
3. **Update deployment** - Add environment variable in Akash Console:
   - Go to your deployment → Click "Update"
   - Find the `METAL_PUBLIC_IP` environment variable
   - Enter your LoadBalancer IP from step 2
   - **Example:** If your IP is `162.230.144.169`, set: `METAL_PUBLIC_IP=162.230.144.169`
   - Click "Update" to save
4. **Use final Node ID** - Copy Node ID from logs AFTER the update completes

**Why two steps?** The LoadBalancer IP is assigned AFTER deployment, so we need to update with the correct IP.

**Important:** Do not wait too long between deployments. Update the deployment promptly after getting the LoadBalancer IP.

## What You Get

After deployment, check your logs for:

```
========================================
=== METAL MAINNET VALIDATOR SETUP DATA ===
========================================

Node ID
NodeID-ABC123...

Proof of Possession - Public Key
0x3059301306...

Proof of Possession - Signature
0x3045022100...

========================================
=== NETWORK STATUS ===
========================================
Public IP: 62.3.50.131
Connected Peers: 20+
Network: Metal Mainnet
```

## Key Features

- **Dedicated IP Support**: Uses `endpoints` with `kind: ip` for optimal P2P connectivity
- **Advanced IP Detection**: Multi-method IP detection (Kubernetes API → Environment Variables → External Services)
- **Manual IP Override**: Set `METAL_PUBLIC_IP` environment variable if auto-detection fails
- **File Descriptor Limits**: Increased to 65536 to prevent "too many open files" errors
- **Peer Monitoring**: Real-time peer count monitoring every 5 minutes
- **Bootstrap Detection**: Waits for blockchain to fully bootstrap before reporting success

## Resources

- [Metal Blockchain](https://metalblockchain.org/)
- [Metal Mainnet Explorer](https://explorer.metalblockchain.org/validators)
- [Metal Validator Dashboard](https://metalblockchain.org/validators)
- [Akash Network](https://akash.network/)
- [Akash Console](https://console.akash.network/)

## Troubleshooting

### Problem: Node shows "Not connected" in explorer
**Solution**: Complete the two-step deployment process. In Akash Console → Update deployment, set `METAL_PUBLIC_IP` to your LoadBalancer IP (found in Deployment → "IP(s)" field). Example: `METAL_PUBLIC_IP=162.230.144.169`

### Problem: "too many open files" errors
**Solution**: The template includes `ulimit -n 65536` to prevent this issue.

### Problem: 0 peers connected
**Solution**: Ensure you completed the two-step process and set the correct LoadBalancer IP in `METAL_PUBLIC_IP`. Example: `METAL_PUBLIC_IP=162.230.144.169` (use your actual IP from Akash Console).

### Problem: Initial Node ID changes after update
**Solution**: This is normal. Use the final Node ID from logs AFTER the IP update completes.

## Need Help?

- **Direct Support:** Email [cerebro@cerebro.host](mailto:cerebro@cerebro.host)
- **Issues?** Open an issue in this repo
- **Questions?** Join [Akash Discord](https://discord.akash.network/)
- **Metal Support?** Join [Metal Discord](https://discord.gg/metalblockchain)

---

Deploy, copy your validator data, register on Metal dashboard, and start earning rewards!
